- [Instructor] Having a distinct status
on a custom resource is very valuable when doing operations,
especially within the CLI and using Kube Cuddle.
By leveraging a status, it makes the operational integrity
of the system much more clear
for the operator of that system.
So let's take a look at how to add status to our CRD.
The first thing that I want you to do
is to go ahead and open up your api and your v1alpha
and then your objstore_type.
We're going to navigate up here to the top.
And we are going to add a constant to this file.
We're actually going to add four of them.
So PENDING_STATE with a text of PENDING,
CREATED_STATE with, as you might guess,
a text of CREATED,
CREATING_STATE with a text of CREATING.
And the final one we're going to do is an ERROR_STATE
and we will call that ERROR.
All right. So now scroll down here a little bit
to this ObjStoreStatus on line 44 now.
We're going to delete all of these notes
and we are going to simply put a value in here called State.
And that State will be a string.
And, of course, we need to do our json
to say that this is a state element.
Now, there's one more element that we need to do.
We need to go to where we see these markers,
as they're called,
these markers are things to let the system know,
Kubebuilder know,
things that it needs to provide,
such as RBAC and stuff like that.
We're going to add a marker for Kubebuilder.
And the marker that we are going to add
is printcolumn:name="State",type=string
and that's going to come from this JSONPath
and that JSONPath.
And this is the tick that is up by the one key
if you're on a US keyboard, not the single quote.
So this is just a tick.
And it's a .status.state.
And then we'll do that single take again.
Now, let's talk about what we just did.
So when you do a get command on the object store,
you'll notice before we saw the name and then a time.
What this is saying is I want you to print a column
called state, and I want you to look into the actual CR,
go to the status section,
and look for the state element in there.
And that's what I want you to display in the column itself.
So that will give us some more visibility
while we're going through the Kube API
of where we're at in things.
So the next thing that we need to do
is we need actually see the state in action.
We're going to write a little bit
of throwaway code and that's okay
because we're are trying to build this system out.
So let's go into our object store controller,
and in our object store controller,
we're going to put this throwaway code
in a method called reconcile.
And we're going to talk a lot about reconcile,
but for right now, just kind of follow along
so I can show you what we're going to build.
So we're going to create an instance of our log.
And now we are going to grab our instance
by creating a reference to it.
So this is going to be cninfv1alpha.ObjStore.
And now once we have that,
we can do an if err, assign that from r.Get.
And r.Get will call a built in dynamic Kubernetes client
that you get as part of the structure.
So to that, we need to pass our context.
And then we need to call in the NamespacedName.
That is the only thing that we have,
is the NamespacedName of the object that's coming in.
We don't actually have the object
so that's why we're loading it.
And we're going to get an instance
from the one that we created.
And then we will do a nil check on err.
And now we're down into the meat.
So we're going to do a log.Error,
and this is going to cause a problem, but that's okay.
We're going to show you that problem
so that you can understand what's going on.
It will go away later.
And once again, this is a great time
for me to remind you that this is demo code,
this is not production code.
There's a reason
that we're are doing things in certain ways,
and sometimes it's simplicity,
and sometimes it's just to show things off.
In this case, it's I want to show something off.
So we are going to return ctrl.Result,
or client.IgnoreNotFound on the err.
So if it's not found, we don't actually want to
break the system, we just want to log that and move on.
All right. So now that we have this,
so now we're going to do a check.
So if instant.Status.State is empty.
So only if it's empty, what I want you to do here,
is do an instant.Status.State =,
and we are going to set to PENDING_STATE.
Now, we're going to do an r.Status.Update.
And this is important.
We're updating the status and not the object,
because the only thing we want to update here
is the status itself, not the object.
That's just part of doing this.
There's times you update the object.
There's times that you update the status.
In this case, we're just updating the status.
So that's all that we need to do to actually go test this.
So let's jump into our terminal,
and in our terminal, there's a few commands
that we are going to execute.
So the first thing that we're going to do
is we are going to delete our crd,
and it's called objectstores.cninf.lil.frankmoley,
in my case, .com.
If you don't remember the name of it,
just go ahead and do a, get on the crd,
find the name, and delete it.
But I've now deleted that from there.
So now I'm going to do a couple commands
and I do these every time,
even though I don't always have to,
it's just habit because I don't want to ever forget
the right one that I need to do.
So I'm going to call make,
and then I'm going to make the manifests,
and just spell that right.
And now I need to do a generate.
And now I'm going to install to put the new instance
of the crd back out there.
And now I can run this thing.
Now, I'm going to let this run, and we're going to look
at some of the messages that come across.
All right. So now I'm going to open up a new instance
of my console and I'm going to go to the same location.
So code for me, extending-kubernetes/cninf.
Now, from here, I'm going to do
a k apply - n lil -f config samples,
and we are going to go ahead and apply that yaml.
So now it has been applied.
If I jump back over to the previous terminal window,
you'll see that we've got the workers started.
We don't have really any indication
that we've done anything,
but if we take a look at the object store,
you'll see that its status pending.
And the only way we would've done that
is through that update command and the controller.
Now, again, we're going to talk a lot more
about the controllers later, but for now,
this is the important thing to see
is that we actually have updated
this CR based on our controller.
The last thing I want to do is I want to describe this element.
So we will do a describe on ObjStore fpmlil-01 -n lil,
and you can see that the timestamp of creation
and the timestamp of update are the same
because we haven't actually updated the object,
but we have set the state to be pending,
but all the rest of our fields maintain the same.
So that's how you update status.
And, obviously, you could go much further
than this than just having one field,
maybe you've got multiple status fields,
but this gives you an idea of how to do that.